# Sentiment_analysis
The aim of the project is to compare the space of stock prices time series of companies from S&P 500 with the space of sentiment time series observed on Twitter towards mentioned companies, where by sentiment time series we understand the fraction of positive posts about the specific company from S&P 500. Hypothesis is such that, if we perform clustering on both spaces, we should observe the same results, namely clusters of stock prices time series should contain the same companies as clusters of sentiment time series. It may imply that the structures of dependencies of dynamic of prices and sentiment are similar. The main challenge is to determine, what the similarity of two time series is. We are going to test different measures and clustering techniques of time series. In order to make time series more comparable, we are going to work on the returns from stock prices and sentiment. Project will be written in Python.
Plan of the project
1. We construct yearly (2017) time series of sentiment towards companies based on the posts on Twitter. We will use package TextBlob in order to determine the character of the selected statement towards specific company (whether it is positive or negative). To have an easy access to posts from Twitter one can use package twitterscrapper.
2. Clustering of the stock prices time series and sentiment time series. In order to do this step, several different approaches are possible, for example:
• one can try to compute the distance between time series by means of simple correlation or, for instance, DTW (dynamic time warping). Once we compute the distance, we are able to use classical clustering techniques and check which time series are close to each other. We can also build a graph, in which vertices will be represented as companies and edges as the distance between two specific companies and than use centrality measures from the network theory to identify the most important vertices (companies).
• the other way of solving this exercise is to look at the time series of the specific company as the observation in 252-dimensional (we are looking at working days) space and try to implement dimensional reduction techniques such as SOM (selforganising map) - and then based on the reduced dimension use clustering methods.
• Visualization of results - presentation of graphs, maps in elegant (possibly interactive) way.
